---
layout: post
title:  "ARC311 Serverless Patterns"
categories: reinvent2022 architecture
permalink: /:categories/:title
---

# ARC311 Serverless Patterns

## Link to Session Recording

[Link to session recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q2OY55gaOjw)

Applying serverless patterns to develop a new prototype reduces development time and offers many advantages in the operational phase as well. In this session, learn about applying serverless patterns to satisfy non-functional requirements step by step. The final implemented result is a prototype ready for production that delivers security, automation, high availability, and operational excellence. For reference, the functional requirement of this prototype is to develop an API service that analyzes sentences. However, as a non-functional requirement, the analysis results must be visualized, while being designed to be secure and available. In addition, all implementations should be provided in a standardized, automated form using IaC.

## Build Production Ready Prototypes

- Definition
- Scenarios
- Architecture
- Tooling
- Implementation

## Scenario: Launching a new product, or service

- Functional requirements vs. non-functional requirements

## Launch lifecycle

- Demo → POC → Prototype → Pilot → Production
- Prototyping is a tradeoff between completeness and functinonality
- Pilot: Functional service released to a small number of users

## The Cloud Native Approach

- Look to Architectural patterns (modular services)
- Operational Model (bias towards serverless)
- Developer agility (automation → everything)
- Management and Governance (Guardrails)
- Data Management

## Early Lifecycle Scenario

- Start with requirements

## Demo

- research
- single iteration (sprint)

## POC

- review request
- define technology
- 2 iterations (sprints)

## Prototype

- Build out architecture
- Review dependencies, define APIs
- Flush out all use cases
- Bias towards serverless architecture
- Ensure observability
  - Cloudwartch
  - X-ray
- Define IAM permissions
- Protect APIs with WAF
  - Front-end to API Gateway
  - Authorize with Cognito
- Implement metric collection
  - Tack on to functioning prototype
- Implement Service monitoring
- Implement Stacks
  - API Gateway (front-end)
  - Backend
  - Analysis
  - Dashboard(ing)
- Use Parameter Store for environment variables

## Reference

[awslabs/aws-solutions-constructs](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-solutions-constructs)

The AWS Solutions Constructs library is an open-source extension of the AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK) that provides multi-service, well-architected patterns for quickly defining solutions in code to create predictable and repeatable infrastructure. The goal of AWS Solutions Constructs is to accelerate the experience for developers to build solutions of any size using pattern-based definitions for their architecture.

The patterns defined in AWS Solutions Constructs are high level, multi-service abstractions of AWS CDK constructs that have default configurations based on well-architected best practices. The library is organized into logical modules using object-oriented techniques to create each architectural pattern model.

## IAC for Serverless

- SAM
- CDK

## CDK

- Core framework
  - App
    - Stacks
        - Constructs
- CDK Solution Constructs
  - e.g., Cognito to API Gateway

## AWS CDK Project Template for DevOps 👀

- [Github repository](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-cdk-project-template-for-devops)

This repository provides best practices and template framework for developing AWS Cloud Development Kit(CDK)-based applications effectively, quickly and collaboratively. In detail, practical approaches such as how to deploy to multi-environment, how to organize directories and how to manage dependencies between stacks will be introduced, and template codes are provided to support them. Gradually, these template codes will be further expanded to support various DevOps scenario.

## Warning

- Prototyping is prone to hard-coding
  - Abstract environment variables from the start
  - Use Parameter Store for Stack Dependencies
  - Learn and employ configuration injection techniques

## Reference: **AWS Serverless NLP Comprehend using AWS CDK**

- [Github Repository](https://github.com/aws-samples/aws-serverless-nlp-comprehend-using-aws-cdk)

This repository describes how to design and implement Natural Language Processing(NLP)-based service using AWS Serverless, Amazon Comprehend and AWS Cloud Development Kit(CDK). This sample specifically illustrates a real-time user review analysis system as an example. All resources and configuration is provided through AWS CDK(typescript codes).****

## Post Prototyping

- Pilot
  - Security Reviews
  - Examination of performance & cost